+++
title = "No 66 68 outside of north enclosure"
+++
\[

[TABLE]

This very long inscription, which bears the same date as No. 65, and resembles it in style, records an order of king Rajarajadeva, by which he assigned the produce of certain lead to a number of men who had to perform various services in connection with the temple, and to four hundred women, evidently dancing-girls, who had been transferred to the establishment of the Rajarajesvara temple from that of other temples in the Chola country. Each person received one or more shares, each of which consisted of the produce of one *veli* of land, which was calculated at 100 *kalam* of paddy. This statement is valuable as it enables us to ascertain, by a comparison of the produce in paddy with the extent of the land, that the unnamed land-measure, which is referred to in two other Tanjavur inscriptions of Rajaraja (Nos. 4 and 5), is meant for the *veli.* According to the *Dictionnaire Tamoul-Francais,* the modern equivalent of the *veli.* According to the *Dictionnaire Tamoul-Francais*, the modern equivalent of the *veli* is 26,755 square meters.

Paragraphs 3 to 402 contain a list of the names of the dancing-girls whom Rajaraja had imported and settled in the neighborhood of the Tanjavur temple. The names of some of these women are of historical interest, as they refer to the designations of sacred places and of royal personages. Of the latter kind are: — Rajaraji (paragraphs 65 and (268), Rajakesari (10), and Arumori[\[1\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn1) (236, 369), which are derived from different names of the reigning king. The name Kundavai (215) is identical with that of Rajaraja’s elder sister, and the name Arinji (400) appears to be connected with Arimjaya, the Sanskrit name of his grandfather. The name Seyya-Soram (280) may be connected with the Chola king Sengan, and the name Kannaradevi (244) reminds of king Kannaradeva, whom Mr. Venkayya has satisfactorily identified with the Rashtrakuta king Krishna III.[\[2\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn2) To the name of each woman is prefixed the name of the temple or village, to which she had been attached before her final transfer to the Rajarajesvara temple. On the basis of these references, and of the names of part of the women themselves, which allude to temples and villages, we can draw up a list of temples, which were already in existence when Rajaraja founded the Tanjavur temple. Among the Saiva temples, the more ancient ones will be those whose names are also mentioned in the *Periyapuranam*, whenever they differ in form from the names recorded in the inscription:—

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

Tiruvaraneri or Araneri (Araneri) at Tiruvarur; Tirumandali (Paravaiyun-Mandali) at Tiruvarur; Tirumulattanam (Mulattanam at Tiruvarur); Tiruvamagalam (Magalam) at Ambar; Tirukkaronam or Karonam at Nagapattanam ((nagai); Tiruvachchiramam ((Achchiramam) at Pachchil; Tiruppadali-Isvara (Padalichcharam) at Pambuni; Vadatali at Paraiyaru (Paraiyagai); Ambalam, Ponnambalam, Tillai, Porkoyil-Tillai, or Manram ((Sidambaram); Amattur; Kadambur; Kandiyur; Karayil (Karayal); Karuvur; Kottur; Nallur; Nannilam; Niyamam (Parudi-Niyamam); Orriyur (Tiruvorriyur); Pandananallur; Paruvur (Tirupparuvur); Talaiyalangadu; Tiruchchorrutturai (Sorrutturai); Tirukkolambudur (Kollambudur); Tirumaraikkadu or Maraikkadu ((Vedaraniyam); Tirunettanam (Neyttanam) Tirupparanam; Tiruppuvanam or Puvanam; Tiruttengur (Tengur); Tiruvaiyaru or Aiyaru; Tiruvalangadu; Tiruvanaikka;[\[3\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn3) Tiruvedigudi (Vedigudi); Tiruvidaimarudil (Tiruvidaimarudur); Tunganai (Tunganai-Mada); Vadavayil (Vadamullaivayil); Vayalur (Viyalur); and Ven-kadu (Tiruvenkadu).

A few of the women are called after Vaishnava shrines which are mentioned in the *Nalayiraprabhandham, viz.,* Arangam (Srirangam), Tiruvengadam (Tirumalai), Ali (Tiruvali), and Sikurugur (Tirukkurugur). Others were transferred to Tanjavur from temples which, to judge from the second part of their names,[\[4\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn4) belong to the Vaishnava sect, *viz.,* Avaninarayana-Vinnagar at Ambar, Sritari-Vinnagar at Arapuram, and Sripudi-Vinnagar at Pambuni.

The second part of the inscription (paragraphs 403 to 510) consists of a list of male temple servants *viz.,* dancing-masters, musicians, drummers, singers, accountants, parasol-bearers, lamp-lighters, watermen, potters, washer men, barbers, astrologers, tailors, a brazier, carpenters, a goldsmith, and others the reading or meaning of whose designations remains doubtful. Some f these persons are called after king Rajaraja (paragraphs 424, 425, 447, 466, 493, 494, 496, 498, 503) and after his surnames Arumori (406, 466), Mummadi-Chola[\[5\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn5) (403, 404, 423, 436, 455, 465, 486), Nityavinoda[\[6\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_2/no_66_68_outside_of_north_enclosure.html#_ftn6) (413, 504), Rajakesarin (467), and Rajasraya (413); others after his father Parantaka (448, 458, 496) and after his grandfather Arimjaya (416, 507, 509). The two names Kandaraditta (505) and Madurantaka (504) probably refer to the two Chola kings Gandaraditya and Madhurantaka. The name Taila (435) reminds of the Western Chalukya king Taila II. Other names are derived from the following Saiva shrines which are kmnetioned kin the *Periyapuranam*: — Aiyaru (Tiruvaiyaru), Ambalam (Sidambaram), Arur (Tiruvarur), Karugavur, Mananjeri or Tirumananjeri, Maraikkadu (Vedaraniyam), Marapadi (Tirumarapadi), Nettanam (Neyttanam), Orriyur (Tiruvorriyur), and Vadavayil (Vadamullaivayil). Finally, three men are called after the Vaishnava shrines at Arangam (Srirangam), Tiruvellarai and Tiruvengadam (Tirumalai), which are mentioned in the *Nalayiraprabandham.*

**Translation**

[TABLE]

\]
