+++
title = "Introduction"
+++
\[

**Miscellaneous Inscriptions From the****TamilCountry**

**Introduction**

[***Click here to continue...Introduction..***](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction1.html)

The early ruling dynasties of Southern India were the Cheras, Cholas the Pandyas who ethnologically are supposed to have been of a common stock, different from that of the Aryans of Northern India. Their language was Tamil and their country accordingly was known as *Tamilakam[\[1\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn1)*’the country of the Tamils’. Under the Aryan influence, the name *Tamilakam* appears in later times to have been Sanskritised into *Dramilak* or *Dramidaka* and dropping the *ka* in accordance with a rule of Sanskrit grammar it became *Dramila Dramida, Dravida* or *Dravida.* When and how these changes took place it is difficult to say. Agastya and Parasurama are famous Aryan sages whose stories are intimately connected from the epic times, with the Dravida country, Southern India. The term Dramidah occurs as the name of a country, perhaps South India, I the Bhismaparvan of the *Mahabharata*.[\[2\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn2)
Manu speaks of the Dravidas as a degraded class of Kshatriyas. Ptolemy in the first century A.D. used the word Dimirice, perhaps, the denote the very same tract of land. In the *Brihajjataka* of Varahamihira and in Hiuen Tsang, we find it restricted to the name of a district on the east coast of the Deccan, of which the capital was Conjeeveram. The word *Tamil* means ‘melodious’ and it was evidently its sweetness that contributed the name Tamil to that language. Whatever may have been the origin of the word, it remains a fact that the Aryans changed it into ‘Dramida’ first and in their characteristic way attempted afterwards to assimilate it and trace it to some Sanskrit root : this appears to have been the practice of the day, as may be inferred from the incidental note on Dravidi words given by Bhatta Kumarila in his famous *Tantra-Varttika*.

Ethnologists point out several racial differences between the Dravidians and the Aryans such as (1) their customs and manners, (2) their thought formations, and (3) the peculiarities in their physical build. While all this may establish Dravidians as a distinct type, it does not help the historian to peep into the antiquity of an independent Dravidian age in the South, uncontaminated by Aryan influence : much less does it enable him to record any events that might corroborate its separate existence. Tamil literature, to a certain extent speaks of the early period of the Tamils : but the major portion of its account has yet to be worked out and proved to be a reliable record of contemporaneous events. Even the few historical facts imbedded in it, are in the usual oriental fashion mixed up with the imagery of the poet or the flattery of the courtier.

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

The kingdoms of the Choda, Pandya and Keralaputta (Chera) are stated in the Rock Edicts of Asoka to have been bordering on the dominions of the Mauryan Emperor and in the first of these, i.e., the Choda country, the faithful (i.e., Buddhists) are reported to have been living. That Buddhism had already reached the South even before Asoka’s time is thus confirmed by the latter statement, though the Ceylonese chronicle *Mahavamsa* denies the fact poetically what it says that the missionaries of Asoka flew over Southern India direct to Ceylon from Kalinga to preach the Buddhist faith there. Stronger evidences have also been recently brought to light which prove the possible influence of Buddhism in Southern India. Whatever the Epics, the Puranas and other early Sanskrit works may state or prove regarding the original Dravida inhabitants, their country and their civilization, positive epigraphical evidence contained in the cave inscriptions of the Madura and Tinnevelly districts written in Brahmi characters of a pre-Asokan type, and in a language whose affinity to the Dravidian may yet be established when these queer records come to be successfully interpreted[\[3\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn3), shows that these natural caverns, like the thousands of similar rock-shelters of Ceylon were occupied in pre-Christian times by the Buddhists and converted by them into residences for their ascetics. The Brahmi characters of these records at any rate must have been introduced by the Buddhists from the north or from Ceylon, though the language adopted may have been one mostly influenced by local dialects. Besides these, no further traces of Buddhism are known to exist in South India till after a long interval. In the 11^(th) century A.D. we find gifts made to the great *vihara* (called Puduveligopuram) at Nagapattanam (Negapatam) by the famous Chola king Rajaraja I. Tamil literature abounds in references to Buddhist stories and authors and leaves no doubt that Buddhism thrived well from its very inception right up to the period of the Saiva and Vaishnava revivals in the early 7^(th) century A.D. and perhaps in a milder form even after that period, down to the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries of the Christian era.

The Puranic and the Buddhist periods in the history of Southern India being thus almost a blank from an epigraphical point of view the history of the Saiva saints and Vaishnava Alvars handed down by tradition and recorded in the books *Periyapuranam* and *Guruparaparaprabhava* respectively, and some well-known works of the *Sangam* period, supply though sparingly, some historical data to work upon. Of the latter class, the *Pattinappalai* is exclusively devoted to the life of the reputed king Karikala who had the banks of the Kaveri constructed by his vassal kings and who is said to have set his foot over the crowns of the Pandya and the Chera[\[4\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn4).
In chapter V of his *Tamils,* 1800 *years AGO*, Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai has collected all that is available in literature regarding the early Chola kings of whom he mentions about eight. Karikala was the most famous of them. It was he that changed his capital from Uraiyur to Kavirippumpattinam, erected banks on either side of the river Kaveri, dug irrigation canals and patronized poets. After defeating the Pandyas and the Cheras, the contracted diplomatic marriage relations with the latter and political alliance with the former[\[5\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn5).
The *Kalavali[\[6\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn6)* or ‘the Battle-field’, a poem written by the poet Poygaiyar, describes the fight at Kalumalam between the Chola king Chengannan or Kochchengannan and the Chera king Kanaikkal Irumporai, wherein the later is stated to have been defeated and imprisoned by the former but released through the intervention of the poet Poygaiyar whose poem had such good effect on the victorious Chola that he granted the request of the poet, viz., the release of the Chera king. Chengannan is called the king of the ‘country watered by the river Kaveri.’ The same event is also referred to in the later poem, the *Kalingattupparani* which describes the conquest of Kalinga by Kulottunga-Chola I. Epigraphical records describe Kochchengannan as a fervent devotee of Siva and as having been freed by that god from the bondage of a spider’s body. In the *Periyapuranam*, Kochchengannan is stated to have been a staunch Saiva, to have built the temple at Jambukesvaram in the Trichinopoly district and to have restored many a Siva temple in the Chola country from ruin[\[7\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/volume_3/introduction.html#_ftn7).
Although a staunch Saiva himself, Kochchengannan is stated to have built Vaishnava temples as well. Still another early Chola king mentioned in literature is Perunatkilli or Perunarkilli who was ‘the master of many sciences.’

Kochchengannan and Perunarkilli, according to Mr. Kanakasabhai Pillai came to the throne after Karikala. Literature states that Killivalavan, the elder brother of Perunarkilli, married a Naga princess named Pilivalai during a romantic excursion and obtained by her a son called Tondai. The king made this prince the ruler of the Tondai-mandalam and thus even the little power that might have been wielded by the Cholas in the northern part of their vast dominions went out of their hands.
Tondai and his descendants are known in later history as Pallavas (Tondaiyarkon).

[TABLE]

[TABLE]

\]
