+++
title = "Inscriptionsofthechandellas87"
+++
\[

**INSCRIPTIONS OF THE CHANDELLAS OF JEJAKABHUKTI**

Cartellieri has already drawn attention to the ‘uncouth’ forms of some of the *aksharas ; e.g., ēsha-* with the following *daṇḍa* in ll. 6 and 73, is engraved as *pakā ; k* is occasionally engraved as *p, e.g.,* in *Kuladhara,* l. 93, and *p* as a perfect rectangle in pada-, l. 31. Instances of occasionally omitting limbs of letters are common, *e.g.,* in *Dāmōdara-,* l. 110, *m* is cut as *g* ; in *padārddham,* l. 58, *m* is engraved as *n,* and in *Vasishṭha,* l. 57 and in some other instances below (in ll. 115 and 116) the slanting stroke of *sh* distinguishing the letter from *p* is omitted, and in l. 123, *alikhat* appears as *ālakhat,* without the curve of the *mātrā* on the second of these *aksharas.* The signs of *anusvāras* and of the superscript *r* are often omitted ; and all such flaws make it difficult to ascertain the exact forms of the proper names which are numerous in the record and in which the influence of local elements is also throughout noticeable. To give one example only, in ll. 48 and 56 the consonants of the letters giving a name are so formed as to make it read as *Dhāvaṇa, Vāvaṇa, Vāchaṇa* and *Rāvaṇa, etc.* ; and this sort of sloven engraving is also responsible for the reading *Vāsē-gōtra* in place of *vatsa-* the letter *t* appearing as a *-pṛishṭha mātrā,* as actually taken by Cartellieri without noticing the flaw.

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

The **language** is Sanskrit, which is occasionally incorrect, particularly in the long list of names of the donees which are all in their local forms,¹ and also in the names of the villages. The record is in prose, except for the initial verse as to be found to commence the Chandēlla grants, one verse eulogising the donor in ll. 4-6, and five verses towards the end in ll. 120-24. The verses are not numbered. As regards **orthographical** peculiarities, we notice (1) the use of the sign for *v* to denote *b* as well, *e.g.,* in *–vōdha-,* l. 9 ; (2) a confusion between the dental and the palatal sibilant as in *vaśundharā-,* l. 6, and *sākhā,* l. 15 ; (3) occasional reduplication of a class-consonant following *r* ; see *–Paramarddi-,* l. 4, but also *–chandrārka-,* l. 16 : (4) The wrong change of *anusvāra* to *m,* as in *samvat,* l. 13 ; and finally, (5) the use of a *pṛishṭha-mātrā* with a few exceptions as in *Kēśava* and *gōtra,* both in l. 82. The *pṛishṭha-mātrā* is often confounded with the vertical stroke, which is also used to show that the letter preceding it is a concise form (of a surname), and also confounded with the sign for medial *ā ; e.g.,* in l. 59, we cannot make it certain whether the name is *Jahēḍa* or *Jāhaḍa,* (6) the *daṇḍa* is also often superfluous, *e.g.,* after *sē* in *vasēt,* l. 13 ; *sandhis* are generally neglected in the formal portion of the record which abounds in names ; and we have examples of wrong *sandhis* also, *e.g.,* in *chaturthānsa,* ll. 36, 39, 40 and below ; and in *maṅgalam-mahāśrīḥ* in the end ; (7) The Prākrit word *satka* in the sense of ‘belonging to’ is used more than once, *e.g.,* in l. 7 and below, besides some other Prākrit words as *pañchēla* in l. 8 and *Laṭiā* in l. 12, which are also occasionally to be seen ; and, last of all to mention, (8) that the local element throughout prevails, not only in the names but also in some other instances, *e.g.,* in the spellings of names as in *Dharmmāṇaṁda* in l. 116, *rishi* for *ṛishi* in ll. 33 and below, *sāmi* for *svāmi* in l. 44, *Yayurvvēda* for *Yajurvēda* in l. 62, and *krimi* for *kṛimi* in l. 121. All these and such other errors have also been drawn attention to in the text that follows, in addition to the cases of scratching or scoring off the original writings and also over-writing that we find occasionally.

The plates were issued by the *Parama-bhaṭṭāraka, Mahārājādhirāja* and *Paramēśvara,* the illustrious **Paramardidēva** of the royal house of the **Chandēllas.** The **object** is to record the confirmation of a grant, from his camp at **Sōnasara,** for the sake of the increase of his own and his parent’s merit and fame, of the villages which had already been donated to certain Brāhmaṇas by his grandfather, the illustrious *Mahārājādhirāja* **Madanavarman,** from his camp at **Vāridurga** on the **fifteenth of the dark half of Māgha, Thursday, of the (Vikrama) era 1219.** The day and the date correspond to Thursday, the **15th of February, 1162 A.C.,** taking the month to be *amānta ;* but, as already aptly remarked by Cartellieri himself, the solar eclipse mentioned in the inscription did not take place on that day but on the preceding new-moon day, the 17th  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
¹ Some of these names can be traced to their original Sanskrit forms, *e.g., Pajūna,* ll. 39 and 94, to Pradyumna, *Tīkama,* l. 21 and *Tikava,* l. 25, to Trivikrama, and Vīṭhu, l. 96, to Viṭṭhala. But the names like *Asadhara,* l. 63, create a difficulty to ascertain whether it is a corrupt form of Aśvadhara or Āśādhara. It may be noted here that the suffix *ka* is often added to a name not ending in a, to form the genetive, *e.g.* in l. 31 we read not only *Pālhū-putra* but also *Pālhūkasya,* clearly showing an addition. The other examples of this type are *Risūkasya,* l. 22, *Dēlhākasya,* l. 25 and *Rilhēkasya,* l. 38.

[TABLE]

|                                                |
|------------------------------------------------|
| **[*Home Page*](https://www.whatisindia.com)** |

\]
