+++
title = "Introduction 1"
+++
\[



**TANJAVUR Brihadhiswara TEMPLE Inscriptions**

**INTRODUCTION**

The Tanjore inscriptions also throw some light on the economic condition of the people of the Chola country about the beginning of the 11^(th) century. The land assessment (*kanikkadan)* was roughly one hundred *kalam* of paddy for e ach *veli* of land. It would be interesting to compare this with the present rate of assessment. Paddy was sold at the rate of two *kalam* for each *kasu* and three ewes could be purchased for one *kasu.* The rate of interest was apparently 12 ½ percent. It was actually 1/8 *kasu* per year for each *kasu* or 3 *kuruni* of paddy for each *kasu* per year. Table A at the end of this paragraph shows the grain value of some of the articles of daily consumption and table B the wages in kind. The latter includes learned professions as well as ordinary workmen. For Sivayogins who had to attend the temple on certain festive occasions and who may be taken to represent the average middle-class men of the time, the allotment made for each meal is 1 *kuruni* and 2 *nari* of paddy. Assuming that a middle-class man took two meals a day, the daily consumption for each man would be 2½ *kuruni* of paddy per day. In table B the parasol-carrier may be taken as the type of the lowest class of manual laborers and each of them got 40 *kalam* of paddy per year and this would yield 1 1/3 *kuruni* of paddy for each day. We need not suppose that he was a full time workman of the temple. He would probably be earning extra wages during the time when his services were not required in the temple. It is worthy of note that chilies are not mentioned where they may naturally be expected and cocoanuts seem to have been unknown at least in the vicinity of Tanjore if not in the Chola country. The *tengu* \[maram\] occurs on p. 56, paragraph 13, and in the large Leyden plates (text-line 314) the donee is authorized to plant cocoanut trees. Though the cocoanut was known, perhaps it was not quite common and therefore it is not mentioned among the offerings presented to the temple. Dhal exchanged with paddy in the ratio of 1 to 3 and curds in the same proportion. Some of the other articles in Table B are also mentioned in two other inscriptions (Nos.6 and 35). But their prices vary in the three. This difference must due to the varying quality of the articles.

A large number of villages in the Chola country had *sabhas* or regularly constituted village corporations which watched jealously over the internal affairs of the village. The Uttaramallur inscriptions of Parantaka I published by me in the Director-General’s Annual for 1904-05 lay down rules for the selection of members to the village committees, which were apparently controlled by the village assemblies. We may presume that the same rules were in force in other village *sabhas.* There were also villages where the villagers managed the business of the village without having been constituted into a regular corporation.[\[1\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/tanjavur_temple/introduction_1.html#_ftn1) Whenever the village assemblies existed, their transactions must have been quite lively as there were periodical changes of members on these bodies. They seem to have been entrusted with civil and magisterial powers. In fact each village seems to have been a self-contained body jealously watching over its own interests as well as those of its members. The village assemblies generally managed temples and were trustees of public charities. A number of village assemblies are said to have received money on interest from the Rajarajesvara temple at Tanjore. In all probability the money thus borrowed was utilized in bringing wastelands under cultivation. From the produce of these lands the interest on the money borrowed was paid. The money itself was apparently never returned. Village assemblies could alienate lands whenever the liabilities incurred by them could not be otherwise discharged.

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

The reign of a powerful king like Rajaraja could not have been without its effect on South-Indian literature. The traditions about the life of the sixty-three devotees of Siva which were in later times embodied by the Tamil poet Sekkirar in his *Periyapuranam*[\[2\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/tanjavur_temple/introduction_1.html#_ftn2) were already current at the time of which we are speaking. The Saiva hymns of the Tiruppadiyam were sung in the temple by 48 musicians accompanied by two drummers (No. 65). The King himself and one of his officers set up images of the most prominent of the Saiva devotees and presented valuable ornaments to them. Rajaraja and his officers would thus have created a Saiva revival even if it did not already exist.[\[3\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/tanjavur_temple/introduction_1.html#_ftn3) It is, however, more probable that in setting up these images they were only representing the religious fervour of the people at large to whom the lives of the sixty-three devotees of Siva must have been quite familiar even before the time of Rajaraja.

It has been supposed that Nambi-Andar-Nambi was a contemporary of Rajaraja.[\[4\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/tanjavur_temple/introduction_1.html#_ftn4) It is ktrue his patron is said to have been a Chola king named Rajaraja Abhaya-Kulasekhara. But there is a very serious difficulty in identifying this Rajaraja with the builder of the Tanjore temple. Among the poems, which Nambi-Andar-Nambi is said to have classified, is the *Tiruvisaippa,* which contains a hymn on the Gangaikonda-Cholesvara temple built evidently by Rajaraja’s son Rajendra-Chola and called after his title Gangaikonda-Chola. The composer of the hymn himself must have lived after Rajaraja; and Nambi-Andar-Nambi who classifies it along with the sacred writings of the Tamil Saivas, must certainly belong to a still later period.

The chief image of the Tanjore temple was called Adavallan.[\[5\]](https://www.whatisindia.com/inscriptions/south_indian_inscriptions/tanjavur_temple/introduction_1.html#_ftn5) Another name of the same image was Dakshinameru-Vidangan. Adavallan was also the name of a grain measure and of a weight for precious metals; while Dakshinameru-Vidangan was the standard used in weighing precious stones. These two names were also borne frequently by ordinary individuals. Adavallan ‘one who is able to dance’ occurs as a name of the god at Chidambaram in the first hymn of the *Tiruvisaippa,* which was composed by Tirumaligaittevar. The name Dakshinameru-Vidanga as applied to a god is easily explained with the help of a hymn of the *Tiruvisaippa* where Meru-Vidangan occurs as a name of the god at Chidambaram. Mount Meru consists of gold and is supposed to be situated to the north of Jambudvipa.

[TABLE]

[TABLE]

\]
