+++
title = "Introduction 1"
+++
\[

SOUTH INDIAN INSCRIPTIONS

VOLUME XIII

**CHOLA INSCRIPTION**

**INTRODUCTION**

11\. The **Chola expedition to Ceylon** also finds mention in a record from Tirunagesvaram (No. 197). The two Sanskrit verses with which the inscription opens are unfortunately damaged, but with the help of these and the Tamil portion of the record we can make out that Princess Arinjigai-Piratti the daughter of Arikulakesari (and hence another sister of Sundara-Chola) who was married to a Bana chief, set up an image of (a deity called) Amarasundaradeva in the temple and made provision for offerings and worship to that image. This was very probably in memory of her husband who fell fighting along with the Kodumbalur general Parantakan Siriyavelar on the battle field in Ceylon, since the Sanskrit portion mentions Simhala and refers to some heroic fight which ‘the ornament of the Bali family’, viz., her husband, the Bana chief, put up against his enemies.

12\. A dynasty of chiefs known as the **Paluvettaraiyar** figures largely in the inscriptions copied at Kila-Paaluvur and Mela-Paluvur in the Tiruchchirappalli District. They seem to have held positions of power and influence under the Cholas from the time of Parantaka I and to have been related to the royal family by marriage. We find it mentioned in A.R. No. 231 of 1926 dated in the 12^(th) year of Parantaka, that Paluvettaraiyar Kandan Amudanar fought, on behalf of his Chola overlord, a victorious battle at Vellur against the forces of the Pandya king and his Ceylonese ally, in which the Pandya lost his life. To commemorate this success the Commander Nakkan Sattan of Paradur made a gift of a perpetual lamp to the temple of Tiruvalandurai-Mahadeva at Siru-Paluvur.

It is perhaps this Amudanar who is referred to in the Anbil Plates of Sundara Chola as a Kerala prince whose daughter was married to Parantaka I and bore him prince Arinjaya (*Ep. Ind.* Vol. XV, p. 50). By ‘Kerala prince’ should be meant a relation of the Chera king, since we know that the Chera contemporary of Parantaka I was Vijayaraghavadeva (A.R. No. 169 of 1912), the probable successor of Sthanu-Ravi the friend and ally of Aditya I (*S.I.I*., Vol. III, No. 89). He must have taken service under the Chola like the Kerala general Vellankumaran under prince Rajaditya (A.R. No. 739 of 1905), and his help of Parantaka might have been situably recognized by the king by the grant of chiefship over a large tract of land. Tappildarma Pallavaraiyan to whom we were introduced on P. IV as the *perundaram* of Arinjaya calls himself a Paluvettaraiyan.

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

A descendant of Kandan Amudanar – probably his son – was Paluvettaraiyar Maravan Kandanar who finds prominent mention in the records of Sundara-Chola and his successor Uttama-Chola. He is represented in this volume by five inscriptions dated between the 10^(th) and 13^(th) years of the reign of the former. Nos. 208, 215 and 344 state that with the permission of this chief, the *Nagarattar*, the *Todapatti-Chettigal* and the authorities of the two temples at Paluvur had it engraved on stone that he *manrupadu* takes payable by them were to be on the same lines as at Nandipuram. It is of interest to note here that the rules obtaining at Nandipuram were regarded as model for some other villages also. An instance of this is to be found in C.P. No. 10 of 1913-14 referred to in para. 10 above, wherein Malavaraiyan Sundarasolan, the same as Kolli-Malavan Orriyuran is stated to have ordered the adoption of the rate prevailing at Nandipuram in collecting the taxes on house-sites, etc., in his region. No. 236 registers an assignment of 24 *veli* of land at Pasungulam on permanent lease to a private individual with certain obligations to the temple, under the orders of the same Paluvettaraiyar Maravan Kandanar, thus reflecting the chief’s high estate.

13\. No. 225 from Udaiyargudi which is dated in the 12^(th) year of the king records an endowment of two plots of land, one by Adittan Kodaippirattiyar, the queen of Arinjigai-Panmar who died at Arrur’ and the other by Udaiyapirattiyar Viman Kundavaiyar another queen, for providing water for the sacred bath of the deity and for offerings. No. 224 from the same place records another gift by the latter queen who is called the mother of **Arinjiya-Pirantakadevar** by which is evidently meant Parantaka II Sundara-Chola. This is at variance with the statement in the Anbil Plates of Sundara-Chola that he (Parantaka II) was the son of Arinjaya by a Vaidumba princess named Kalyani, unless we identify this lady with Viman Kundavaiyar herself ; or, she might be a step-mother of Parantaka II. Viman Kundavaiyar again figures in the 14^(th) year of the king (No. 249) as a donor to the temple at Tiruvisalur, and in No. 271 from the same place dated in the 17^(th) year of the king she is referred to as the Queen Dowager (?) (*Purvadeviyar*).

14\. An inscription from Koyil-Tevarayanpettai dated in the 14^(th) year of the king (No. 250) provides an interesting example of the encouragement given to learning in ancient times. It registers an endowment of 20 *karunkasu* made by one Bradayan (Bharadvajan) Senda\[n\] Nakkapiran-Bhatta Sarvakratuyaji (the same as Senda Nakkan of No. 169 of the king’s 7^(th) year) of Kurramangalam, who stipulated that the sum of 3 *kasu* accruing from the amount as interest every year should be given as a prize to the best of the competitors (excluding the successful candidates of the previous years) who recited prescribed portions of *Jaiminiya-Samaveda* before the deity on the night of Tiruvadirai in Margali month, evidently as part of the festival in the temple.

Similar examples of encouragement to learning are provided in Nos. 170 and 342 both of the time of Rajaraja I. The former registers several gifts to the temple including an endowment to two persons reciting the *Tiruppadiyam* and another to 25 Brahmins who were to recite *Talavakara-Samaveda, Taittiriya-Veda and Chhandogya-Samaveda* before god in the temple at Kuttalam (Tanjore) built bySembiyan-Mahadevi, the mother of Uttama-Chola. The latter record mentions an endowment made as *Mahabharata-vritti* for the (daily) reading of the *Mahabharata* in the temple.

The latest date known for Parantaka II is the 17^(th) year of his reign. Nos. 277 and 278 from Koyil-Tevarayanpettai (Tanjore District) and No. 281-A from Chintamani (Chingleput) all dated in this year give the appellation *Madiraikonda* to the king. The first of these refers to gifts made previously to the temple in the 13^(th), 14^(th) 15^(th) and 17^(th) years of the king, and (curiously) to one made in the 19^(th) year also which is evidently a mistake for some other date. The last inscription is important as indicating the northernmost limit of the Chola kingdom at this period. Chintamani which is called by the name Tiruppagavanrurai in the record is said to be ‘as sacred a place on the east coast as Gokarnam is on the west’.

15\. **Rajaraja I :** More than 50 inscriptions in this volume may be referred to Rajaraja I. They range up to the 22^(nd) year of his reign, though it is rather peculiar that they do not begin with his famous historical introduction *Tirumagalpola*, etc., which we find generally in his records later than his eighth year. In about ten of them, all from the Tanjore District, we find prominent mention of Sembiyan (or Pirantakan) Madeviyar, the mother of Uttama-Chola, as the donor of rich endowments to the temples including those for the supply of water from the river for the sacred bath of the deities on *Sankranti* day. One such inscription is No. 144 from Tiruvenkadu which gives a consolidated list of all the gifts made to the temple at that place up to the 6^(th) year of the king by this lady and by other members of the royal family at different times. Thus gifts made in the second year of Gandaraditya *alias* Mummudi-Chola by the queen ; in the 4^(th) year of Parakesari (Uttama-Chola) by herself and by a certain Koyirpillaiyar ; in the 10^(th) and 11^(th) years of Parakesari Uttama-Chola by the king himself; in the third year of Rajakesari (Rajaraja) by Sembiyan-Mahadevi and by Sorabbaiyar Tribhuvana-Mahadeviyar, a queen of Uttama-Chola ; and lastly in the sixth year (of Rajaraja I) by Sembiyan-Mahadevi are all mixed up together and consolidated for record. It is of interest to find included at the end of the inscription a gift made by this queen for the merit of her servant (*adiyal*) Ilaichchiyan Malapadi.

A visit paid by queen Panchavanmadeviyar to the temple at Tiruvidaimarudur in the fifty year of the king finds mention in No. 133 which states that the occasion was marked by a gift of land made by her for the upkeep of a gardener looking after the *champaka* garden which had been presented by Sembiyan-Mhadevi.

16\. The present village of Olagapuram in the South Arcot District evidently derives its name from **Lokamahadevi** a queen of Rajaraja I. Probably in the wake of its foundation was also built the Siva temple which is now in ruins. For we learn from No. 54 dated in the third year of Rajaraja that Ambalavan Gandaradittanar, a *perundaram* nobleman of the king, erected a stone temple to Srikayilayattu-Paramasivami at Ulogamadevipuram,, a *taniyur* in Oyma-nadu, and made a gift of sheep for burning a lamp in the temple. In another inscription from the same place dated in the 7^(th) year of the king (No. 167) this chief figures again as the donor of a flower-garden to the temple. He is herein called Gangan Ambalavan Gandaraditta-Vlupparaiyan of Kuvalalam (Kolar) in the Ganga 6,000 province. His full name is given as Gangan Ambalavan Gandaradittan *alias* Mummudisola-Vilupparaiyan in No. 61 of the king’s 3^(rd) year from Udaiyargudi, which states that 19 *veli* of land was endowed to the temple in his name for the daily feeding of 56 Brahmins in the temple.

Another officer or chief who is said to have belonged to the *perundaram* of Mummudi-Chola (Rajaraja I) and who hailed from Kuvalalam was Ambalavan Paluvurnakkan *alias* Vikramasola-Maharajan. He built of stone the *Srivimana* of the temple at Govindaputtur and endowed land for worship therein in the 3^(rd) year of the king (No. 76). This chief figures largely in the reign of Uttama-Chola under this title. In a record from the same place dated 2 years later (No. 124) he is mentioned with the title Rajaraja-Pallavaraiyan.

\>

17\. The chiefs of the **Paluvettaraiyar** family who figured in the inscriptions of Sundara-Chola are mentioned in the records of this reign also, wherein they are referred to in terms of respect implying the high position they were still holding. Nos. 98 and 171, dated in the 4^(th) and 7^(th) years of the king and No. 298 of the 22^(nd) year mention respectively Paluvettaraiyar Kandan Maravan and Paluvettaraiyar Kumaran Maravan. It is not clear whether the two names refer to one and the same person, or to father and son, which seems more probable. From No. 98 we learn that Kandan Maravan had founded the temple of Tiruttottam-Udaiyar at Mannupperumpaluvur in Kunrakkurram, and that he gave all the right of worship therein to a resident of Tiruchchiruvalandai on the representation of the supervisor of the temple, while he was staying at Senapuram in Maladu. No. 298 says that under orders of Kumaran Maravan a certain Vadugan Madhavan of Poygaikkuruvidam reclaimed a portion of *devadana* land at Uragankudi and gave it to the temple of Avanigandharva-Isvaragarattu-Mahadeva.

Still another member of the Paluvettaraiyar family besides Kumaran Maravan mentioned above – if not identical with him – was Palavettaraiyar Kumaran Kandan figuring in No. 235. By a slight mistinterpretation in the text of this record the chief has been taken to be son of Pagaividai-isvarattu-Devanar, whereas the latter’s son was correctly Nakkan Pudi, who under orders of Kumaran Kandan brought some fallow lands at Uragankudi under cultivation and presented them to the temple for the maintenance of two lamps. Two daughters of this Devanar of Paluvur are also known one of them being Nakkan Akkaranangai who was married to a Chera prince (No. 153) and the other, Nakkan Panchavanmadevi, a queen of Rajaraja I (A.R. No. 385 of 1924)

18\. Another prominent feudatory of the king was the **chief of Miladu** in the present South Arcot District. No. 63 from Tiruvamattur dated in the king’s 3^(rd) year records a gift of lamp to the temple by the chief Raman Siddhavadavan *alias* Vikramasola-Miladudaiyan of Bhargava-gotra. His wife Pulisayyan Sami Abbai also known as Milada-Madeviyar the donor of a lamp to the temple at Kilur (No. 104) is called the daughter of the Pandya king. An inscription from Tiruvisalur of the 3^(rd) year of the king (No. 39) registers an endowment of land to provide for 108 pots of water being supplied on every *Sankranti* day for the sacred bath of the deity, made by Siddhavadavan Suttiyar a queen of Uttama-Chola and thedaughter of a Miladu chief whose name is not however given. She must have been either a sister or a daughter of this Vikramasola-Miladudaiyar.

Still another feudatory chief of Rajaraja was Madhurantakan Achchapidaran son of Virsola-Ilangovelar of **Kodumbalur,** who made a gift of 30 *kalanju* of gold for the daily feeding of a Brahmin in a *matha* at Govindapadi in Valla-nadu, a subdivision of Damar-kottam. No. 33 from Tirumalpuram in the North Arcot District with records this gift is dated in the 3^(rd) year of rajakesarivarman who is distinctly called Rajaraja in the Sanskrit verse at the beginning of the inscription. This is an important feature of the record as showing that the name *Rajaraja* **had been borne by the king from the very beginning of his reign**, and not conferred on him in his 19^(th) year by the temple authorities at Chidambaram as suggested in *S.I.I.*, Vol II (int. p. 5). This fact is confirmed by another epigraph as will be seen presently.

19\. No. 149 from Little Kanchipuram dated in the 6^(th) year of Rajakesarivarman deserves notice as fixing an **important land-mark** in the early military campaigns of Rajaraja. It registers an order of the king to his minister Kon Vidividangan *alias* Villavan-Muvendavelan of Uttarangudi in Arvalak-kurram, a subdivision of Sola-nadu, to donate all the 900 sheep which had been captured by Kurukadi-kilan Paraman Malapadi *alias* Mummudichcholan Solakon after his attack on and conquest of Sitpuli-nadu and Pakkai-nadu, for burning ten lamps **in his name as Rajaraja** in the temple of Ainjandi Durga-Bhattaraki at Kachchippedu. From two inscriptions of the time of Parantaka I from Tiruvorriyur (Nos. 160 and 236 of 1912) it is known that a general of that king conquered Sitpuli and destroyed Nellur, and on return from there made a grant to that temple. It was surmised in *M.E.R.* 1913, II, 18, that Sitpuli referred to the Eastern Chalukya king (Bhima II) or one of his subordinates. The present inscription would indicate that the reference is rather to a locality or region and not to any individual. Pakkai-nadu is evidnelty the Paka-nadu (Nellor District) mentioned in inscriptions. These regions must have been lost to the Cholas in the disturbed period following the Rashtrakuta invasion and conquest of the Chola territory in the last days of Parantakai. Now when Rajaraja was preparing himself for a programme of conquests, the attack by his military chief of these divisions should have formed a preliminary to the scheme of campaign against the Vengi country after the enterprise at Kandalur. The date of the inscription shows that he directed his attention to the north as early as the 6^(th) year of his reign.

No. 131 from Perangiyur in the South Arcot District which may be referred to the reign of Rajaraja I deserves mention. It registers an endowment of two pieces of land made by the assembly of Peringur in Tirumunaippadi, one for the maintenance of a lamp in the local temple and the other for feeding a *tapasvin* daily therein, for the merit of one Ganavadi Nambi Aruran who was doing the *srikaryam* (sacred service) to the Mulasthanattu-Perumanadigal of their village, as a memorial to the sacrifice he made of himself (*atmatyagam*) in the sacred service of the god. We have to understand by this expression a life of dedication to god. It may incidentally be mentioned here that Saint Sundaramurti was also known as Nambi Aruran.

20\. There are very few inscriptions of Rajakesarivarman which may be assigned to kings subsequent to Rajaraja. No. 157 from Tirupporur in the Chingleput District and No. 211 from Nerur in Tiruchirappalli are both of the reign of Kulottunga I. No. 216 from Tiruppalaivanam (Chingleput) is to be ascribed to Kulottunga II. In this last inscription the king is called rajakesarivarman ‘who was pleased to cover with gold the temple of Tirupperambalam (Chidambaram)’. This act of devotion is definitely claimed for Kulottunga II in A.R. Nos. 350 of 1927 and 349 of 1929. It finds mention in *Kulottungasolan-ula* a poem by Ottakkuttan in praise of this king, and in Sekkilar’s *Periyapuranam* were it is stated that king **Anapaya (Kulottunga II) gilded the Chidambaram temple.**

**[*Home Page*](https://www.whatisindia.com)**

\>

[TABLE]

\]
