+++
title = "Introduction1"
+++
\[

**BOMBAY-KARNATAKA INSCRIPTIONS**

**VOLUME XI - Part I**

**INTRODUCTION**

**....T**he Ron inscription introduces the Ganga subordinate Mahamandalika Butayya as the governor of Gangavadi-96,000, Belvola-300, Puligere-300 provinces in Saka 864 (=A..D. 942) while his Kurtakoti inscription mentions the chief as holding charge of the same provinces in Saka 868 (=A.D. 946). In the Naregal inscription of Saka 873 (A.D. 950) Butayya Permadi is stated to be ruling over the Gangavadi 96, 000 province extending as far as peldore. The river Peldore is generally identified with the river Krishna but the Gangavadi territory is never known to have extended up to the Krishna. It is therefore plausible that the Peldore of this record represented the river Tungabhadra which was the northern limit of the Gangavadi-96,000 province. From the inscriptions cited above, it appears the Butuga was in possession of Belvola and Purigere divisions as early as A.D. 942 and 946 in contradiction to the statement made in the Atakur inscription (*Ep. Indi.,* Vol VI, p. 55) that Krishna III was pleased with the valour of Butuga displayed in the killing of Rajaditya and presented to his Ganga subordinate the districts of Banavase, Belvola, Purigere, Kisukadu and Bagenadu. Since we know that Rajaditya was killed by Butuga in the battle of Takkolam in about A.D. 975 (*Ep. Indi.,* Vol. IV, P. 350) that Butuga received from Baddega these provinces except Banavse, as dowry (*balivali)* at the time of his marriage with Revaka or Revakanimmadi.
The marriage must evidently have taken place before A.D. 942 since Butuga is mentioned in the records quoted above as the *Bhava* (brother-in-law) of Kannaradeva. Butuga must have held these districts unobstructed till A.D. 946; but in the interval between A.D. 946 and 948-9, when he received them again as presents from Krishna II (see the Atakur inscription), he must have been deprived of this portion of his territory by his enemies, probably, his elder brother Rachamalla, who according to the Deoli plates of A.D. 940 (*Ep.Ind.,* Vol V, pp. 188 ff) had been ousted from Gangavadi and in his place Butuage had been set up on the Ganga throne. Rachamalla’s attempt to recover the territory permanently (through he might have held it for a short while) must have ended in his disaster; for he is stated, in the subsidiary inscription on the top of the Atakur stone (*Ep. Ind.,* Vol. VI, p. 55) dated Saka 872 (=A.D. 949 From the way in which this incident has been introduced, it appears that it was an event of recent occurrence. It is therefore not unlikely that Rachamalla’s death at the hands of Butuga happened sometime between A.D. 946 and 949.

The Ron inscription mentioned above records an interesting historical fact that utayya laid seige to Rona for collecting certain incomes such as *bhattaya, perohi (?)* and for establishing the right of using the village threshing floor (*kana)* and that at the instance of the Mahajanas of the place, he was opposed by Pampayya of Vaji-kula who in the tumultuous fight lost his life. It is not known under what circumstances Butuga had to attack Rona and whether the disaffection at Rona had any origin in the unsettled political conditions due perhaps to the quarrel between the rival claimants to the throne, *viz.,* Butuga and Rachamalla. The Naregal inscription of A.D. 950 reveals for the first time that Butuga had another wife Padmabbarasi besides Revakanimmadi mentioned above. She is stated to have constructed a *basadi* (Jaina temple) at Naregal to which a *dana-sala* (charity house) had been attached. In the Soratur inscription of A.D. 951, Kannaradeva is given the *birudas: Anevedanga, Madagajamalla* and *Chalakenallata* and his body-guard (*amgaraka*) Ruddapayya is stated to be administering the village Saratavura. Another important record for the political history of the period comes from narasalgi according to which Chalukya-Rama Ahavamalla **Tailaparasa** of the Satyasraya family was governing the Taddevadi-1,000 district as *anuga-jivita* in Saka 886 (=A.D. 965). Tailaparasa is evidently Ahavamalla Taila II who is stated in the fragmentary inscription at Gadag of the time of Vikramaditya VI to have destroyed some Rattas, killed Munja, taken the head of Panchaladeva, possessed himself of the Western Chalukya territory and begun to rule from the year Srimukha which fell exactly 10 years after the date of the Narasalgi record. **This is the first and the only record that established the subordinate position of the Chalukyas under the Rashtrakutas** before the former recovered their ancestral territory under Taila II.

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

**Kottigadeva** the last king of the family is represented in the volume by four inscription ranging in date between Saka 891 and 893. The Nagavi inscription of Saka 891 mentions his subordinate Satyavakya-Permanadigal, i.e., Marasimha II and the latter’s officer Boluga who is described as the crest –jewel of Papakalla-kula. The record was composed by poet Samiyanna ‘in sweet and chaste Kannada’. His Savadi inscription refers to the same Ganga chief and records a gift to the temple of Bhagavati made by Sunkada-Ballayya. The record was composed by the ‘born poet’ Narana and engraved by naganaraya ‘in swift hand’. Samiyanna and Narana were two early kannada poets not hitherto known, who flourished in the reign of Kottigadeva, but whether they were the authors of any literarily works is not disclosed.

**THE WESTERN CHALUKYAS OF KALYANA:**

The earliest inscription of the Western Chalukya dynasty in the volume comes from Kurhatti (No. 45) in the Navalgund taluk of the Dharwar district. It refers itself to the reign of Ahavamalla (Nurmadi-Taila II) and is dated in Saka 902, Vikrama (=A.D. 980). We have seen above that Ahvamalla Taila figured as a subordinate of Rashtrakuta Krisha II in Saka 886 (=A.D. 965). This state is pushed back by seven years in a record recently food at karjol (B.K. No. 178 of 1933-34) which introduces the chief as an officer of Krishna III in Saka 879. The latest year for Taila II is contained in the Hosur Inscription of Saka 915 which shows that his political career lasted for at least 36 years
though it is possible that he should have commenced to rule sometime b before Saka 879 and that his last year should have terminated sometime before Saka 924, the earliest known date of his son and successor Irivabedanga Satyasraya. The Kurhatti inscription mentioned above records and interesting historical fact that the local chief kalidhurandhara had pleased Kannaradeva by his valour. This kannaradeva is apparently Rashtrakuta Krishna III under whom Taila was an officer.
This shows that the subordinates of the Rashtrakutas transferred allegiance to their new masters, ie., the Chalukyas, without resistance, on the overthrows of the former. Koralgunda, the *Manneya* of Mulugunda-12 and a scion of the Sindarace and Kunnala family was a subordinate officer under Taila II (No. 47). The districts of Belvola and Purigere were, during his rule, subject to the administration of Sobhanarasa who according to the Nilgund inscription of Saka 904 succeeded is elder brother Kannapa sometime before that date. When exactly the latter event took place is not certain though it is known that Sobhanarasawas already a governor of the provinces in Saka 902 (No. 45). Sobhanarasa was succeeded by Dandanayaka Kesavarasa sometime between Saka 926 the latest known year for the former and Saka 934 the earliest known date for the latter (Kotavumachgi inscription). While editing the Kotavumachgi inscription of Saka 934, Mr. R.S. Panchamukhi has shown that the Belvola and Purigere districts were successively held by Kannapa, his younger brother Sobhanarasa, Kesavarasa and his son Vavanarasa in the 10^(th) and the 11^(th) centuries of the Christian era, under the Chalukyas. (*Ep. Ind.,* Vol. XX, page 64). It may be noted that Sobhanarasa whose territory originally consisted of three provinces, *viz.,* Banavasi, Two-Six hundreds and Kogali (*Ep. Ind.,* Vol. IV, pp. 206 ff), is described in the Gadag inscription of Saka 924 as the governor of the Belvola-300, Purigere-300, Kundu-500 and Kukkanur-30 (No. 49), while the Yalisirur inscription of Saka 926 adds Halasige-12, 000 but omits to specify the Kundur and Kukkanur divisions (No. 50).

[TABLE]

[TABLE]

\D7

\]
