+++
title = "Introduction 1"
+++
\[

**INTRODUCTION**

No. 422 referring to Nanurruvan Malayaman alias Rajendrasolach-chediyarayan and dated in the 15^(th) year of the king states that his daughter Alavandal and wife of Malaiyaman Raman Surriyan alias Rajendrasola Malaiyakularayan of Kiliyur, caused the image of the goddess of Palliyarai to be set up in the temple of Tiruppulippagavadevar of Sirringur in Kurukkaikkurram in Miladu in Rajaraja-valanadu, for the merit of her mother (achchi) Udaiyan Suriyadevi alias Ninratavanjeydal. This lady is referred to as the wife of Nanurruvan Malaiyaman alias Rajendrasolach-chedirayan in a record of his predecessor discussed above (No. 409). It records that Alavandal purchased two veli of lands in Sirringur, from Vikkiramasolach-chediyarayan son of Rajavirarajendrasolach-chediyarayan, and granted it as iraiyili-devadana to the same deity for worship and offerings.

The next king represented in the volume is Kulottunga II (No. 374) from Olakkur in South Arcot District. It records a gift of 100 kalanju of gold entrusted to the ur for the construction to a stone temple to god Tiruvagattisvaram-udaiya-mahadevar of Ulakkaiyur alias Rajamahendranallur in Oyma-nadu alias Vijayarajendra-valanadu in Jayangondasola-mandalam, by Rajendradevar. The urar received it and raised the stone structure (tirukkarrali) upto the level of the panchanga expending 50 kalanju of gold for its work. The balance of 50 kalanju was otherwise spent in course of time (kala virodattal-antarappattapinbu) and because of this the construction work came to a standstill; the artisans (kalum pidarun-seyvargal) and the srimahesvaras represented to the ur to take up the construction work but they could not do so. This is on account of the reason, that funds were being utilised for the above work. A gift of 20 kalanju was made for the setting up of an image of god Umaskanda in the temple in lieu of the gold that was spent. It is not impossible that Rajendra was a chief and not a king, for the record does not refer to a grant made in the reign period of Rajendra. It is difficult to take it as a title of Kulottunga I and consequently as a grant made in his reign period. The expression panchanga indicates the five out of the six component parts of a vimana, viz., adhishthana, bhitti, prastara, griva and sikkara. The last part, i.e., stupi seems to have been left unfinished.

One of the two records of Tribh Rajaraja from pon-Amaravati in Tiruchirappalli district, dated in the 8^(th) year (No. 4) records the provision made for the installation of the linga and for the consecration of the vimana at Ponnamaravati in Puramalai-nadu in Rajendrasola-valanadu in Rajaraja-Pandinadu by Rajendrasolan-keralan alias Nishadharajan. The other record of his 19^(th) year (No.9) states that vimana Rajendrasolan-cholisvaram-udaiya-mahadeva and records the assignment of right of worship to the Sivabrahmanas the same temple. In the inscriptions of Kulottunga, the same deity is referred to. This king has been identified with Kulottunga, the same deity is referred to. This king has been identified with Kulottunga III who succeeded Rajaraja II for the temple itself is stated to have been built during the reign period of Rajaraja. It may therefore be noted that the chief Rajendrasola Kerala Nishadharajan and Vimana Rajendrasola-Nishadharajan are identical. Similarly the identification of Rajaraja suggested in the report reasonable (A. R. Ep., 1909, part. II, para 51 (6), p. 100).
Since during the 12^(th) century A.D. the fight of steps (sopana) and the cloister around central shrine (tirunadaiumaligai) were added by a chief named Nilaimaiyalagian, the vimana should have come into existence in the time of Rajaraja II and not in Rajaraja III’s reign. It is therefore, that this may neither be the rebuilding of the temple nor the reconsecration of the image. (Cf. Ins. of Padu. State part. I, p. 110) 

No. 432 dated in the 19^(th) (?) year of Rajaraja II registers an endowment of 4 veli of land in Marudur alias Abharanadaninallur in Rajarajavalanadu, by Malaiyaman Attimallan Sokkapperumal alias Rajagambhirach-chediyarayan of Killiyur in Tirumunaippadi in the same valanadu, for the god Tiruppulippagavadvar of Sirringur in Kurukkai-kurram in Malanadu, probably so called after the title Rajagambhira borne by this king Rajaraja II).

|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

The record from Olakkur (No. 373) of the 4^(th) year of king Rajadhiraja II is of social interest as it enlightens us with the practice of observing prayachchitta by one who aims at an individual wrongly for the object of hunt. It states that when Appan Sattan of Kudippalli Nediyam in Eyilinedungala-nadu in Vijaya-Rajendra-valanadu in Jayangondasola-mandalam and a certain Udaiyan Perumal belonging to Orali of Uratti in Uratti-nadu in Venkunra-kottam, went out for hunting, the arrow aimed by Udaiyan Perumal at a pulvay (bird) fell on Appan Sattan and killed him. The pattappaerumakkal, the periyanattar, and the pannattar met and decided to impose prayachchitta on Udaiyan Perumal, who made a gift of 32 cows for a perpetual lamp, in order to atone for the killing of Appan Sattan, to god Vatapivitankar in the temple of Tiruvagattisvaram-udaiyar at Ulakkaur alias Rajendranallur in Jayangonda-sola-mandalam.

Another Malaiyaman chief Kannan Suran alias Akarasura Malaiyaman is stated in a record of the same king, dated in his 19^(th) year, to have endowed a bronze vessel weighing 60 palam, for food-offerings to god Tiruppulippagavadevar (No. 448). His identity with the Malaiyaman chiefs who bore the title Akarasuran like Alakiyanayan Tiruvannamalai-perumal etc., is not known except for the fact that he belongs to the same family. The regnal year quoted in the record seems to be a mistake for 14. 

The only Chola inscription (No. 434) that refers to the Kadava chief, who claims to belong to Kudal, identified with the modern Cuddalore (Kudalur) in South Arcot district, is from Siddhalingamadam of the same district. It is dated in the 6^(th) year of Virarajendracholadeva, a title of Kulottunga III and in this record a donor named Elisaimohan alias Jananatha-Kachchiyarayan, son of Alappirandan Arasanarayanan of Kudalur is mentioned thus indicating his subordination to this Chola king. This chief is said to have granted the remission of taxes (specified) for worship, offerings etc., to the god Urbagankondaruliya-nayanar at Iraiyanaraiyur alias Solakerala-chaturvedimangalam in Paranur-kurram, a sub-division of Maladu alias Jananatha-valanadu. The record to doubt belongs to Kulottunga III whose inscriptions commence with the Prasasti Puyal vayttu valam peruga’ etc. and the title Rajakesari is a mistake for Parakesari, frequently occurring in the records later to Vikramachola.
The only difference found in these two records in that is the former, the title Alappirandan assumed by the chief Arasanarayanan, father of Elisaimohan is mentioned. That this was an epithet also borne by the younger Perunjinga is evident from his records. (S.I.I., Vol. XII, Introd., p. XI). In both the records Elisaimohan calls himself Jananatha Kachchiyarayan and this should therefore be taken as his surname as suggested by V. Venkatasubba Ayyar. He is also simply called Kachchiyarajan in a record from Vriddhachalam in South Arcot district (A.R. Ep., 1934-35,

[TABLE]

[TABLE]

\]
