+++
title = "Introduction 2"
+++
\[

**INTRODUCTION**

**Rulers of Kongu**. —The Cholesvara temple at Sangramanallur in Coimbatore District yielded 32 inscriptions of the different rulers of Kongu *viz.,* Viranarayana, Virachola, Virarajendra, Vikramachola Virpandya. The undated inscriptions Nos. 166, 167 and 198 of Konerinmaikondan, reveal that during the period of early Kongu rulers, privileges were bestowed on the temple officials for the maintenance or supervision of the endowments made over to the temples of Viracholisvaram-udaiya-nayanar and Avinasi-yaludaiyar- Nos. 166 and 167 record the setting up of the image of Tribhuvanasundarar and goddess Nachchiyar in the former temple, for the merit of the king (*mamadi*) and the grant of the village Devampadi *alias* Viranarayananallur in Kavadik ka-nadu along with income from taxes for providing lamps to the deity. The record No.166 further mentions that the *samantars* and administrators (*adikarancheyvargal)* are not to supervise the endowment made by the king but it must be done by the *srimahesvaras* and *devakanmigal* of the temple. It may be noted that the signatory of the grant Viranarayana Virasingadevan in No. 166 figures also as a signatory in No. 167. The name of the village Viranarayananallur and of the persons who attested the grant named Viranarayana Virasaingadevan seem to suggest that they came to be called after the overlord Viranarayana.
Hence Konerinmaikondan may be identified with Viranaranarayana who assumed the throne in 1139-40 A.D. The second regnal year of this king may equated with 1140-41 A.D. , which is the date of a record (No. 198) from Avanashi in the taluk of the same name in Coimbatore District.
This reveals another interesting information regarding the colonisation of the village Tanavasi *alias* Viracholanallur in Kitip-nadu, granted by the king Rajakesari Konerinmaikondan during his 2^(nd) regnal year on the occasion of his coronation, for the worship of the deity Perunkarunaichchelviyar of the Tirukkamakkottam in the temple of Avinasiyaludaiyar. The gift was enjoined to the heirs of Madevandar including Tiruvegambam-udaiyan who were to enjoy the income from the taxes on this village. It further states that the *devakanmigal* of this Nachchivar temple were to collect the taxes levied on the village and the *samantas* should not interfere into it. Madevandar would decide in regard to the colonising of the village in the absence of the settlement by the rightful families and the families thus settled should measure out oil for the goddess. Nos. 146 and 145 belonging to the reign period of Konerinmaikondan refers to the construction of the temple of Viracholisvaram-udaiyar at Kolumam. The one dated in the 23^(rd) year (No. 146) of this king engraved on the south wall of the central shrine records a royal grant of land and some privileges to the architect (*sirpachari*) named Maniyan Kayilayam *alias* Virachola achariyan who erected the temple from *upana* to *stupi* and built the *vimana*. It also mentions that he would arrange for carrying out the temple repairs, for the installation of the deities in stone and metal, for providing the paintings in the *tirunadaimaligai* (circum-ambulatory passage) and the *tiruv-eduttukkatti* (raised wall or coping) and for getting the donations inscribed in the temple. No. 151 from Sangramanallur, Udumalaipet Taluk, Coimbatore District states that during the reign period of Konerinmaikondan Virarajendradeva, due to an invasion and destruction of Kolumam in Karaivali-nadu, a number of temples (named) in the places in this nadu were devastated. The king, referred to above, granted the village Irattaiyan padi in Vaikavi_nadu as a *devadana* to these (temple) including the temple of Viracholisvaram-udaiyar as *prayaschitta* for the damage occurred to several temples. It is not unlikely that this invasion must have been undertaken by the northerners (*vaduga*) as it is stated in a record of this king dated in his 45^(th) year (1251—52 A. D.) that an old image of Aludaiyar Nittaninraduvar (i.e., Nataraja ) in the Viracholisvaram-udaiyar temple at koluman received damages in their war and a new image was again set up by one Alavandan Avanasi *alias* Kachchivarayan. It is not unlikely that the northerners referred to hear may be identified with the Hoysalas in the north of the Kongu territory.


|     |
|-----|
| \>  |

It is interesting to note that an order dated in the 8^(th) year of the reign of Vira-pandyadeva, relating to the matter of colonisation of the village Sevur *alias* Sembiyan Kilandinallur in Vadaparisara-nadu, a *devadana* village of the god Avinasiyaludaiyar which was a *kani* of the said village (No.197). It is stated that the people would settle here from the month of Panguni during the same year and would enjoy the income from the lands in the next year (i. e., the 9^(th) year) but they should pay from the year after that (i.e., 10^(th) year) the paddy and the income from several taxes like*mel-irai, kil-irai, ottachchu, sungavari, elavai, ugavai, tirumau-katchi, upp-ayam, kurradendam puraadal, sirrayam, tariy-irai, tattar-pattam, yilam punsey* (tax for toddy drawing), *paraikkana, tol-attu* (tax on hides and skins) *tiruchchulavari, tiruvaslviniyogam, sumai-sungam,* etc., besides 10 *achchu* annually. 

In this village the members belonging to the two communities i. e., Vellala and Puluva issued a deed of agreement according to which two families each from Vellala and Puluva should be removes from the 9^(th) year of the king from the colony of Sevur. The record which relates to this settlement does not quote any reason for this decision. It may be inferred that probably these four families must have transgressed the family promise or emigrated from out of the colony. This agreement was attested by members from different villages (No. 196).

**Hoysalas.—**No. 764 from the Varadarajaperumal temple at Alambakkam Lalgudi Talu, Tiruchirappalli District, which is undated, contains two sections. Of which, the first is partly in verse and partly in prose, while the second section is in prose. The record in verse states that the temples of Dachchina Kailayamudaiyar and Tirumerkoyil (the temple in the west, i. e., Vishnu) and the Madurantakappereri were caused to be constructed by a certain Kalakiyamudaiyan Surriy \[?\] Sirkondilangu Chatumaraivanan, a *palli* of Nenmali This record also refers to the renovation of these temples, when they become dilapidated in course of time, by Vittappan, son of Aru\[la\]lunathan of Nellainagar, who is described as ‘a person with valour and *Sattiyavachakan.’*

The portion in prose below this, records that Valiya-dandanayakkan son, of \[Ada}ppillai-dandanayakkan of \[Aranappuram\] of Madurantakam in Tondaimandalam, who was a *dandanayaka* of Narasingadevan, caused the repairs to this *Sri vimana* (of the a central shrine) on which the record is engraved. The name of this temple is not given. This general is identical with his namesake who is mentioned as the son of Dutapillai-dandanayakkan in the Tamil portion and as the *arbhaka*
(son) of Duta in Sanskrit verse in a record (*S. I. I.,* Vol. V, No. 659, verse 1, line 1) from Tirumalavadi in Udaiyarpalayam Taluk of the same district. It is possible that their overlord Narasimha mentioned in these two inscriptions is evidently the same as Hoysala Narasimha, who held sway over this area. It may be said from the above records that his reign period witnessed many benevolent acts including the construction of a tank called Madurantakappereri. One the grounds of paleography Narasimha may be considered to be identical with the second king of that name who is known to have ruled from 1220 to 1238 A. D. 

[TABLE]

[TABLE]

\]
